OUTLINE
  Intro
  Multithreading
  Scheduling: lower and upper bounds
  Fork-join
  Designing parallel algorithms: sequences
  ---> LIST RANKING AND SUCH?  DO WE NEED THIS STUFF? 
  Online scheduling: work stealing
  Designing parallel algorithms: tree contraction
  Designing parallel algorithms: graph search, BFS
  Designing parallel algorithms: graph contraction

o Preliminaries
  
  process

  thread

  application will consist of multiple threads.  we shall then run
  them on a number of processes.

  in the pthreads model, things are a bit confusing... think about
  this.  because you create many threads but how many processes do you
  run on?  you don't have control over this...

Lecture 1
o introduction

  o serial computing ruled the world
    draw a dinosaur
    


  course: theory and practice.  we will alwask ask two questions:
  
  1) does it work in practice?
  2) does it work in theory?


Introduction

goal: learn a lot and be very satisfied about it, because well it
works no matter how you look at it. not just science, not just art,
both.  beautiful in all senses of the word.

what to expect.  this is a graduate class.  this means that i don't
care about your grade (not that i care if this was an undergraduate
class, who am i to tell you what grade you should aim for).  but if
you are sitting here, you might as well work to get an A.

but i have non answered the question.  what to expect.  there will be
some assignments, one midterm exam, and one project.  the assignments
will be in the first half of the course.  i expect that you will
devote your second half to your project.  

we could make you scribe notes but we are not going to do that because
in my view, it is not the best use of anybody's time.  instead i will
try to prepare a set of notes.  i have some in draft form that i will
share here.  let's hope that i can stay on top of it as the semester
advances.  all in all, we probably have notes for the half of the
course. 



o preface: should all the code be updated to work to use pasl main branch? 
o preface: discuss process and threads
o multithreading: 
  present lower bounds W/P, S
  present upper bounds: Brent and generalized Brent.
  online scheduling and scheduling friction



o there are some inconsistencies in the defition of threads in the
multithreading seciton and fork-join section.

o graphs: present the graph library and the operations possible.
o sorting: observed work efficiency factor terminology.
o parallel arrays: show destructors/deallocation, and the move operator.

o other models
  see vijaya ramachandran's notes


